# SeekingUniversalApproximation
A collection of papers I wrote on quantum machine learning and quantum non linear approximation.
## [A_Variational_Algorithm_for_Quanutm_Single_Layer_Perceptron](https://www.dfki.de/~klusch/i2s/MacalusoEtAl_-_A_Variational_Algorithm_for_Quanutm_Single_Layer_Perceptron_-_2022.pdf)
**Abstract. ** Hybrid quantum-classical computation represents one of the most promising approaches to deliver novel machine learning models capable of overcoming the limitations imposed by the classical computing paradigm. In this work, we propose a novel variational algorithm for quantum Single Layer Perceptron (qSLP) which allows producing a quantum state equivalent to the output of a classical single-layer neural network. In particular, the proposed qSLP generates an exponentially large number of parametrized linear combinations in superposition that can be learnt using quantum-classical optimization. As a consequence, the number of hidden neurons scales exponentially with the number of qubits and, thanks to the universal approximation theorem, our algorithm opens to the possibility of approximating any function on quantum computers. Thus, the proposed approach produces a model with substantial descriptive power and widens the horizon of potential applications using near-term quantum computation, especially those related to quantum machine learning. Finally, we test the qSLP as a classification model against two different quantum models on two different real-world datasets usually adopted for benchmarking classical algorithms.

## [Enabling Non-Linear Quantum Operations through Variational Quantum Splines](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.04788)
**Abstract.** The postulates of quantum mechanics impose only unitary transformations on quantum states, which is a severe limitation for quantum machine learning algorithms. Quantum Splines (QSplines) have recently been proposed to approximate quantum activation functions to introduce non-linearity in quantum algorithms. However, QSplines make use of the HHL as a subroutine and require a fault-tolerant quantum computer to be correctly implemented. This work proposes the Generalised QSplines (GQSplines), a novel method for approximating non-linear quantum activation functions using hybrid quantum-classical computation. The GQSplines overcome the highly demanding requirements of the original QSplines in terms of quantum hardware and can be implemented using near-term quantum computers. Furthermore, the proposed method relies on a flexible problem representation for non-linear approximation and it is suitable to be embedded in existing quantum neural network architectures. In addition, we provide a practical implementation of GQSplines using Pennylane and show that our model outperforms the original QSplines in terms of quality of fitting.
